---
title: "Exploring the role of generative AI in higher education: Semi-structured interviews with students with disabilities"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2024-11-25-GenAI_role_SWD
excerpt: 'The release of a free generative artificial intelligence (GAI), ChatGPT, in November 2022 has opened up numerous opportunities for students with disabilities in higher education. While the transformative impact of GAI on teaching and learning in general is being debated intensively, little attention has been given to its potential for fostering or hindering inclusion. In news and blog articles, disability advocates have provided insights into the benefits and uses of GAI. However, a comprehensive understanding from a broader sample remains lacking. In order to address this gap, this study raises the question: “How do students with disabilities use and perceive ChatGPT as a tool in higher education?”. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with students with disabilities to gain insights into their current utilization of GAI, identify limitations and challenges, and explore their expectations. A total of 33 participants took part, including neurodiverse students as well as students with visual impairments, chronic diseases, hearing impairments, and mental health conditions. Results suggest that ChatGPT brings significant opportunities as an assistant in teaching, writing, reading and research, or self-organization. Based on this study, higher education institutions are recommended to consider the opportunities the tool represents for students with disabilities in their AI policies. They also have a responsibility to train and inform students to harness the potential of GAI. Developers are encouraged to address accessibility issues and to include the opinions of individuals with disabilities in their research. More practically, the results of this study can be used to design future applications that bear in mind the expectations and concerns of students with disabilities.'
date: 2024-11-25
venue: 'Education and Information Technologies'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Pierrès, O., Darvishy, A. & Christen, M. Exploring the role of generative AI in higher education: Semi-structured interviews with students with disabilities. Educ Inf Technol 30, 8923–8952 (2025). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10639-024-13134-8'
---
